__NOTOC__ *Work in progress. seth is messing with stuff*

## Agenda

-   Backups
-   LDAP/passwd
-   New NFS
-   Service monitoring
-   Alerting service
-   General - root passwords/keys
-   New people / tutorials

## Minutes

attendees: seth, sjh, susie, des, riot, bung, kev

### LDAP

-   We should probably generate static password files for at least the
    admin group, so stuff still works when [LDAP](LDAP "wikilink") dies.

### Service Monitoring

-   We should have something. **mon** was sugggested, but we shall see.
    Probably worth another argument if someone goes out and looks at
    stuff.

### Ecartis

-   spam all users about downtime
-   bung will fix allusers@ *done*

## etc

-   kev will do a tutorial, seth will farm noobs
-   u5's autoboot
-   no one is allowed to touch reaper til after seth's dissertation
-   backups on tennant - home, mail,db, ldap, public_html, configs into
    svn. tape backups - mail or home. weekly backups to IDE
-   kev will make xen irc - kill off colin so no u1's
-   CPU for the Dell poweredge
-   16 port/24 port 100mbps switch
-   planet.tardis - des

[Category:Meetings](Category:Meetings "wikilink")