# Tutorial 1: Logging in to Tardis

The first thing you need to do is actually connect to Tardis and log in.
If you are reading this I am assuming you already have an account, and
hence know your username and password. If for whatever reason you do not
know either your username or password, consult with the friendly admins
in [#tardis](irc://irc.imaginarynet.org.uk/%23tardis) on
[IRC](IRC_Service "wikilink") or email the admins at
<support@tardis.ed.ac.uk>

For shell access, Tardis only runs [Secure
Shell](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell) (SSH). Telnet sends
passwords as well as all connection data in plain text over the
Internet, and is simply not sufficiently secure in the modern world.
This means that to log into Tardis you will need an SSH client. On Linux
you simply need `ssh `<var>`username`</var>`@ssh.tardis.ed.ac.uk` where
<var>username</var> is - you guessed it - your username! For macs,
MacOSX comes with an ssh client out of the box, so check your
documentation for how to use it to connect to `ssh.tardis.ed.ac.uk`.

Windows however does not come with an SSH client built in, like it does
with Telnet, and you will have to download one. I recommend
[PuTTY](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/) - it is
powerful and easy to set up and use. It is a very small executable that
doesn't need any special installation - just download from that link and
run. In the window that comes up, type `ssh.tardis.ed.ac.uk` in the
"host name or ip address" box, and make sure the SSH protocol is
selected below. Then type a name for it in the "saved sessions" box such
as "tardis" and click save - this way you can select this connection
from the list in future and just double-click. Then click "open", and
type your username and password when prompted.

Congratulations, you are now logged in on your Tardis shell account! If
you are new to Linux the lack of graphical interface can be quite
intimidating, but don't worry - these tutorials will hold your hand and
walk you through it! By the time you finish these, you should feel quite
confident in using your account.

First off though, you might want to change your password from the one
given to you. To do this type `passwd` and answer the prompts.
Congratulations, you just ran your first program! Now click next to
learn about how to run other programs under Linux, and move around the
filesystem.

**Next: [Using Bash](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/2 "wikilink")**