# Tutorial 11: Configuring and compiling your own software from source

For a typical windows user, having to compile software you download
yourself just to use it may appear rather daunting. You are probably
used to being able to download complete binaries ready to run, or
software that comes on nice cds that autorun when you put them in the
drive, come up with a cute friendly installer wizard with big buttons to
click that walks you through the toughest decisions you have to make -
where to install it on your disk, and whether you want a desktop
shortcut. There are no two ways to install something, and whether the
program runs and how is irrelevant because it's just a bog-standard
unoptimised generic windows binary. It is not optimised for your
computer's architecture, and it will run slowly. If there is a bug in
it, you cannot fix it, even if you knew how, because the software is
closed-source. You cannot decide what features you want enabled when you
install it - you get it all or nothing. This is the sissy way, and we
are not sissies. Linux lets you do things properly. In this tutorial we
will compile a piece of free software from source and make it run. You
will be amazed how easy it is - you'll be compiling your own kernels on
your home linux box in no time. Let's break the process down into 6
steps:

## 1. Finding and downloading the software

For this tutorial we will get a nice console game of tetris. The idea is
that it is small, will be easy to configure and fast to compile, and
will not have (m)any dependencies to meet - and at the end of it you
will get something that actually does something, albeit not especially
useful. There is an old and trusted console tetris game included in the
**bsd-games** suite, which is what we will use. A swift google session
reveals that the source can be obtained from
<http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/Linux/games/bsd-games-2.17.tar.gz>. I advise
you to select and copy the link to save having to type it out. Now what
we need to do is download it to our homedir - in the last tutorial i
showed you how to use wget, and you should have the appropriate
environment variables already set to be able to download things through
the uni http proxy. Remember you can paste by just right-clicking in the
putty window. Type: '''

    cd ~
    wget http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/Linux/games/bsd-games-2.17.tar.gz

''' That simple. But what to do with this mysterious .tar.gz file??

## 2. Extracting the downloaded package

The extension means two things. It means it has been "**tar**balled",
and that it has been compressed with **gzip**. Gzip is just like winzip
or any other compression utility - it simply takes a file and makes it
physically smaller by using certain mathematical algorithms. However,
unlike winzip et al, it only works with an individual file. So in order
to compress multiple files together, we can combine them into one large
file (which we can extract the contents of later) first, called a
"tarball". This is what GNU **tar** does. This program also supports
piping its input or output through various compression programs such as
**gzip**, so there is no need to compress and decompress separately.
Let's decompress our package (remember you can use tab completion): '''

    tar -xvvzf bsd-games-2.17.tar.gz

**The commandline options are to e**x**tract, be**v**ery**v**erbose,
that the tarball is a g**z**ipped file, and that we should read input
from the**f**ile by the following name. If you are confused, check**man
tar**(although tar is one of those programs i mentioned earlier that has
a much more detailed info page than man page). You could also have
achieved the same effect manually by typing**gunzip
bsd-games-2.17.tar.gz**followed by**tar -xvvf bsd-games-2.17.tar**. It
is also worth mentioning that the .tar.gz extension is just one
convention, and you will often see files with the shorthand .tgz
extension meaning the same thing. You will also see files with
extensions such as .tar.bz, for which you should use the**-j**flag
instead of**-z'''.

Ok, now we have the expanded source tree in our homedir - but what to do
with it?

## 3. Configuring the software before compilation

Type **ls** in your homedir. You should now see your original source
file, and a directory by the same name (without the extension). '''

    cd bsd-games-2.17
    ls

**You will see several directories with various source files in them,
several README type files named in caps to make them stand out, and
a**configure**script. When installing a new package you should**less
README**and**less INSTALL''' as well as any other helpful looking files
you might see - they usually explain in great detail all the ins and
outs of installing the package in question.

The first thing we do is to configure the program prior to compiling it,
so **make** knows what you want out of it. Before you do this you need
to know something that varies between users - what user group you belong
to. Type **groups** - this will most likely say "student" or some
equivalent. You will need to know this to set the right file permissions
later. Type **./configure** and you will be faced with a series of
prompts about how you want the software configured. You can generally
press return to use the default answers for all the questions, except
the ones about where the software is going to be installed, and who it
will be owned by. We are only compiling tetris from this package, so
when a prompt comes up to ask what packages to build (not what NOT to
build), simply type "tetris". Since you are installing software as a
user rather than root, you do not have access to write to the usual
places software is kept to make it available for all users. Therefore
you will have to install it inside your own homedir. For all prompts
that ask you for a location, simply give it the same one: "\~/games".
Then for the prompts that ask who what should be owned by, instead of
"root" put your username for the user, and the group as your group (that
you found out ealier). When the process is complete, the configurator
will generate a **makefile** and exit. This is a file that is read by
**make** that basically tells it what to do and how.

## 4. Compiling the software

It is now time to compile the software - the source code is in c, and
will be compiled by **gcc**, but we do not need to worry about this. We
could easily compile a single source .c file by typing **gcc \[SOURCE
FILENAME\] -o \[NAME OF BINARY FILE TO MAKE\]**, but software composed
of many source files generally tends to be packaged to be built with
**make**. Now we have created a makefile, all we need to do to start the
compilation process is to type **make** - do that now! The process
should not take long at all, as we are only compiling tetris.

## 5. Installing the compiled binaries

So we compiled the compilation, but nothing much seems to have changed.
The usable tetris binary has been created, but it is not in a convenient
place and it is surrounded by a lot of chaff in the form of no longer
needed source files. We can run tetris right now by typing **cd tetris**
and then **./tetris** to run it - but let's do this properly. Make sure
you are in the \~/bsd-games-2.17 directory and type **make install**.
This will create the appropriate directories in your homedir and set the
appropriate permissions for the files based on how we configured it. If
you did not set these values correctly in the configurator, this step
will fail because you will most likely not have the permissions
necessary to write anywhere other than your homedir. If this step
succeeds, you will have the \~/games/ directory that you created which
will contain the tetris binary (highlighted green if your **ls** has
colour support enabled) that you can run by typing either its full path
or **./tetris** while in its directory. The ./ is necessary, and just
means "in the current directory", as otherwise executables have to be in
your PATH variable in the environment to be executed just by typing
their name. Don't worry about this too much for now though.

If for some reason the install step failed, you can move the relevant
binary file elsewhere manually as it is a simple program that needs
nothing but itself to run (no runtime libraries etc). Often you will
have difficulty using **make install** on a certain package if you are
trying to install as user, because a lot of software wants to be
installed as root to get full functionality and be accessable to all
users. If you are having trouble installing such a package, you can ask
an admin to install it for you as root on the system. For the current
tutorial, if something went wrong with the **make install** step you can
simply move the "\~/bsd-games-2.17/tetris/tetris" binary to \~/ and run
it from there. You can always go back and run **./configure** again and
correct your mistakes, if you don't mind answering all the questions
again, then **make install** again - unless you changed any major
options you will not need to recompile. All the **make install** script
does is locate the binaries and supporting files in appropriate and
convenient locations automatically and change their permissions
correctly.

## 6. Cleaning up the remaining unneeded files to make space

Now we have our tetris binary created and moved somewhere new, such as
\~/ or \~/games, we can remove the remaining source files as we no
longer need them. '''

    cd ~
    rm bsd-games-2.17.tar.gz -f
    rm bsd-games-2.17 -rf

**As mentioned earlier, be exceedingly careful when
combining**-r**and**-f''', as the latter forces a delete, leaving no
room for error.

Now you can play tetris that you compiled yourself, on your tardis shell
account, by going to its directory and typing **./tetris**.
Congratulations! You have now completed my beginner tutorials. This does
not mean there is nothing left to learn however! My tutorials have tried
to keep it extremely brief, and there is a lot you have to learn for
yourself from man pages and maybe other internet tutorials. For example,
it is very important to know about **pipes**, that i have barely
mentioned - you should google for "bash pipes tutorial" to find out
more. Nevertheless, now you should be able to do most everyday tasks
from your shell account without difficulty. If you have completed all
these tutorials in order, i want to thank you for taking the time to do
so. Please contact me on irc or by email as described on the index page
to suggest any improvements, no matter how minor - if you were lost at
any point, please tell me so that i can clarify for future readers!

**Next: [Cheatsheet](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/cheatsheet "wikilink")**