# Tutorial 2: Basic navigation of the command line environment

When you log in via SSH, you are presented with the command line
interface, by means of the shell. The current default is Bash. Bash
stands for "Bourne Again SHell", and is one (but the most commonly used
by far) of many shells available for Linux. A shell is is what
interprets what you type into the prompt and makes things happen -
different shells do things differently. Your default shell is bash,
although you can change it if you wish, but this document will only give
you a brief introduction to using the shell to run programs and use the
filesystem.

### Prevent your home directory from being globally accessible

Since Linux is a Unix-like system, it inherits many features from Unix's
design. On multi-user systems, this includes having everyone's home
directories (where you store your own files and program configurations)
globally readable by any user. This may not be desirable to you,
especially if you use your shell account for idling on IRC all day, and
have a few private messages you might not want everyone to be able to
see (however, note, do not have an expectation of privacy on insecure,
multi-user systems).

In the shell, type **chmod -R o-rwx \~**

The tilde '\~' is shorthand for your home directory, /home/USERNAME/. In
our default, Bash (and most other shells), this is also referenced by
the variable $HOME (variables are accessible in shell scripts and the
shell more generally by appending $ to the start of them).

### Running programs

To run a program, you need to know the name of that program. All you
need to do is type that name, or if it is a specific script or program
in a non-standard place, you will need to type the path of it as well
(more on this later). A lot of the non-interactive Linux programs take
command-line options which are additional words or filenames you type
after the name of the program. For example, the Linux program **cat**
(short for "concatenate") can display the contents of text files. Try
typing: '''

    cat /etc/motd

**This simply dumps the content of the file "motd" in the directory
"/etc" to screen. Command-line options also often have one-letter flags
which tell the program what mode to run in, or how to display the
output. For instance,**ls**lists the content of a directory, much like
"dir" in a windows command prompt. Try typing**ls /**Now try typing**ls
/ -l**This simply lists the files and directories in the root of the
filesystem (referred to simply as "/"), but the second one gives the
"long" output. You can usually get a quick listing of the command-line
flags available for a program by typing**\[program name\] --help**It is
worth mentioning that the Linux command-line is case sensitive, unlike
windows - this means that**cat**is different from**CAT**and from**Cat'''
etc. - only one will work, because there is no program called "CAT", but
if there were you could call it by using the upper case. This applies to
all filenames and command-line options etc.

### Learning how to use programs

The best way to learn how a program works and how to use it is by
reading the man page (manual page) built into the system about that
program. To find out what a program does and how to use it, simply type
man \[program name\]. Try it now - type: '''

    man cat

''' You can scroll up and down using up and down arrows, page up and
page down, and space and return. Don't worry if you don't understand
everything written there, you're not expected to memorize all of a
program's options - that's why they're so easily accessible in man
pages! Press q to quit the man page reader.

I should also mention the other manual command, info which (most of the
time) shows the same info as man, but uses Emacs to display it. However,
certain programs (such as tar) have much more useful information in the
info page than the man page, because certain GNU programmers are very
awkward about these things. You don't really need to worry about this
though.

### Finding a program for your purpose

If you know what sort of program you want to run, but aren't sure of the
name (or if such a program exists), you can use **apropos** to search
for a program by function. For instance, say we want to find an IRC
client but we don't know the names of any. We type: '''

    apropos irc

**But we get quite a lot of matches, most of which are no use to us.
This is because the search has turned up a load of results where "irc"
was part of another word, such as "circular". If we have a quick look at
man apropos we find out that the -e flag searches for exact matches:**

    apropos -e irc

**Yay, we've narrowed our matches down to what we wanted! Alternatively
we could have tried**apropos "irc client"**which would have yielded the
same results. However, typing**apropos irc client''' without the quotes
would have returned twice the unwanted results, as it would have
searched for both "irc" and "client" and given you results for either.
The quotes tell Bash to treat what you put in them as one continuous
string.

### Navigating the filesystem

Just like in windows, you can use **cd** to change directory. Why don't
we use it in combination with ls to have a browse around the filesystem
right now! To change to a directory, simply type **cd** and that
directory's name. You'll notice the directory you're in is shown on your
prompt, and can also be shown by typing **pwd**. Now let's take a spin
around the filesystem and see what we can see! Type ls between each step
to get a feel for where you are. To go up a step in the directory tree
type cd .. Notice you are now in the /home/ directory with all the
users' home directories. To return to your specific home directory, type
**cd \[your username\]** To go to the root of the filesystem type **cd
/** You can also use tab completion - this is where you press tab
partway through typing the name of the directory (or filename) and the
shell completes it for you (if there is only one possible match).
Otherwise you will hear a beep. If you press tab a second time, it will
list all the possible completions for what you've typed already. Type
**cd \~** to return to your home directory. You can navigate faster by
using absolute paths. The current directory can be printed to the shell
by typing **pwd** - this is useful to remember for scripts that you
write for the shell. If you wanted to look at the source of my web page,
you could type:

'''

    cd ..
    cd ..
    cd var
    cd autofs
    cd www
    cd users
    cd rain
    cd pages

**But it is infinitely more efficient to type**cd
/var/autofs/www/users/rain/pages/**all in one go. You could also type
that without the first "/" but only if you were in the root directory -
the first "/" means "from root". The last "/" is optional - Bash is
intelligent enough to know something is a directory even if you don't
use it, but tab completion puts it in. From here we can now go back to
our homepage using absolute paths - type**cd /home/\[your username\]'''

All this takes a little getting used to, and it's useful to have a
command reference nearby - I recommend printing this handy [Tardis
command-line
cheatsheet](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/cheatsheet "wikilink").

### Changing your shell

If you decide you want to try another shell, you can type the name of
it, e.g. **zsh** (Z Shell) to start it. However, to change it so that it
is your login shell, the traditional **chsh** will not work. This is due
to LDAP (the way that Tardis manages accounts). Please ask on our IRC
channel if you want to change it.

**Next: [Mail](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/3 "wikilink")**