# Tutorial 3: Reading and sending mail

As a tardis user you get an email address - yourname@tardis.ed.ac.uk -
which you can use in every way you'd use your usual isp's email account
or a webmail account and more.

A recent and not yet heavily tested addition (as of time of writing) is
an IMP webmail interface for your tardis mail. This is possibly the
easiest way to access your mail - just go to
<https://webmail.tardis.ed.ac.uk> and sign in with your username and
password. This seems to work fine right now, so if you do spot any bugs
please be sure to report them to support@tardis.ed.ac.uk.

Tardis also runs a POP3 and an IMAP server, allowing you to get your
mail the same way you would from your ISP's email account. Connect to
**pop.tardis.ed.ac.uk** for the POP3 and **imap.tardis.ed.ac.uk** for
the IMAP, using your login username and password. The main difference
between POP3 and IMAP is that IMAP keeps a copy of all your email
remotely on the server (which happens anyway with tardis) and POP3
(optionally) deletes the email once it's been downloaded (this is up to
your POP3 client). It is also planned to implement a POPS and an IMAPS
server (the ssl secure variants of POP and IMAP) - this file will
hopefully be updated when that happens.

The other method of reading and sending your mail is straight from the
shell, using one of several commandline programs available. The most
simple is **mail**, which allows you to send and read mail with the
minimum of bells and whistles, but is also very user unfriendly, so we
shall use **mutt**. Mutt is a clone of **pine** which is also available,
but mutt has superior features and is generally much more modern. Both
mutt and pine use **ncurses**, which means they can draw in your
terminal fullscreen and use colours rather than being limited to
printing text one line at a time on the prompt - this makes them far
more user friendly.

In mutt you can scroll through your messages with the up and down arrow
keys, open them with the return key, and delete them by pressing D.
Unread messages are marked with the letter N next to their number.
Related emails which are replies to each other, such as on a mailing
list, are shown connected with red arrows. A list of keys you can press
is at the top along with their function. To write new mail, press M and
type the address of the recipient. Mutt calls an external editor to
compose mail with, which sadly happens to be vi. Vi is certainly no good
for a beginner, so unless you are comfortable using this, i suggest you
change your default editor. This is done with an environment variable -
use **export EDITOR=nano** and **export VISUAL=nano** on the commandline
to set your default editor to nano, or any other editor you prefer. More
on this in a later tutorial. Since you are modifying the environment the
change will only last while you are logged in. If you want this to
happen every time you should add the above lines to **\~/.profile** -
hopefully an automated .bashrc and .profile generator will be finished
soon. If you do not know how to do this, simply do: '''

    echo export EDITOR=nano >> ~/.profile && echo export VISUAL=nano >> ~/.profile

'''

You can send mail to external email addresses this way and also email
other users on the system - for other users on the system you do not
have to specify the full domain, for instance instead of addressing your
email to "madeupname@tardis.ed.ac.uk" you could simply address it to
"madeupname". Why not try sending an email to yourself right now? If
mutt is run with an email address on the commandline it will go straight
to compose-new-message mode and return to the commandline once the email
is sent. First set the environment variables to use a nice editor like
nano if you don't know vi and havent already done so: '''

    export EDITOR=nano
    export VISUAL=nano

**Then we'll run mutt, telling it to send to yourself (where
\[yourusername\] is your own address) and CC it to me (-c rain)**

    mutt [yourusername] -c rain

''' Answer the prompts, giving a subject such as "hello world email!"
and when it comes up with the fullscreen editor type a short message.
When you're finished, press ^O (^O means ctrl-O, the O is for output and
is the command to save your file) and then ^X to exit. Your mail is now
sent. You can now read and delete it by running mutt with no commandline
options. Don't forget to type man mutt to find out what other
commandline options it takes!

**Next: [Screen](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/4 "wikilink")**

[Category:OutOfDate](Category:OutOfDate "wikilink")