# Tutorial 4: Using screen on tardis

Screen is a very useful and powerful program that lets you create and
manage multiple virtual sessions independently of how or where you're
logged into a machine. If you don't understand what i mean, don't worry
- it's simplest to explain it by example. If you create a screen
session, it gives you a command prompt again - think of it as a shell
within a program. That's pretty much all there is to it - you can run
anything as normal in this new shell. The advantage is, you can
disconnect your current login and the shell will not terminate -
whatever was running in it will still be running, whereas normally if
you log out all your child processes are killed.

## Creating a screen session and running a program in it

Now we will create our screen session. Simply type **screen** and you
will get a splash screen at which you press space, then your terminal
will clear. While in screen your terminal will not beep as before, but
instead will flash visually when it receives a beep command from an
application. Try pressing backspace a few times on an empty prompt to
see this in action.

So now let's run our program - something with constant visual output.
Type **top** and you will get a nice list display of the top (!)
processor intensive processes running on the machine you are logged in
on and various information about them, along with general system stats.
These are often interesting to watch :) Now simply close your putty
window / kill your ssh connection without logging out. Then log back in,
as described in tutorial 1. Now you want to get your screen session
back. Just type **screen -r** to get it back (-r for retreive)...
couldn't be simpler! You now have your top window back. Press **q** to
exit from top and type **exit** or **logout** to close the screen
session and return to your normal prompt.

## Running multiple screen sessions and different ways of attaching

One useful feature is our ability to name a screen session to be able to
identify it later. Create a new screen session and run top in it again,
but this time we name it using -S (case is important): '''

    screen -S mytopsesh
    top

**Now we can detach the active screen session and leave it to run in the
background by pressing**^a-d**(that means ctrl-a followed by d). To tell
screen you want to send it a command, rather than sending it to any
program you have running, you press ^a to let it know you're talking to
it, then follow it with one of the command codes it recognises. For more
information read**man screen**. So now you've detached your first screen
session, let's create a second one to run something different in - say
an editor session you want to leave running.**

    screen -S myothersesh
    nano

**Then detach it again with**^a-d**as before. Now if you type**screen
-r**you will get a list of possible screen sessions to reattach, with
their number and name - you can recall them by name using**screen -r
mytopsesh**or just by number, which you have to do if you didn't name
them when you created them. So now you have multiple interactive
sessions running accessable from one terminal window, which you can
close without them terminating. Now open a second putty connection
alongside the first, as described in tutorial 1 again. From here we can
reattach any of the screen sessions we created on the other connection.
Type**screen -r myothersesh**and you will see the editor again. Now
type**screen -rd myothersesh**on your first login session and the editor
screen detaches from where you just attached it and comes back here
again (the**-d**detaches if necessary). And to finish off here's
something cool to try: Type**screen -rx myothersesh''' on the second
login box (the one where screen isn't attached currently). This
reattaches the screen session as usual, but WITHOUT detaching it in the
first location. Now try typing someting in the editor in one of the
putty sessions, and then the other. Isn't screen cool?

**Next: [irssi with screen for
IRC](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/5 "wikilink")**