# Tutorial 5: Using irssi with screen for IRC on tardis

Tardis runs an irc server that is part of a larger network called
Imaginarynet. For security and convenience reasons, the particular ircd
(irc daemon) on tardis is only reachable from inside tardis.ed.ac.uk,
and it is the only one accessable due to tardis' firewall. The irc
client of choice on tardis is **irssi** (the alternative is a client
called **bitchx**, which is similar in interface, but horribly annoying
in function). It is a text-based client that supports all the usual
things you may have used mirc for - multiple servers, plugin scripting
support, and other nice things. We'll run it in a screen session so if
we get disconnected / log out of tardis, our irc session will remain so
we can catch up on what we missed when we come back to it (it is
advisable to set yourself to away if you are going to leave a detached
irc screen session for any length of time).

First make an appropriately named screen session: '''

    screen -S irc

**Then run irssi in it:**

    irssi

**Connect to the local tardis irc server, using TLS:**

    /connect -ssl irc.tard.is

**Then join #tardis :D**

    /join #tardis

**Congrats! You are now idling on irc in #tardis like the rest of us.
You can change your nick with**/nick**, and change the currently open
window using**alt + numberkeys**. To leave a channel type**/part**and to
close a window type**/window close**. Irssi commands can often be
abbreviated, so the latter could also be done by simply typing**/win
c**. To quit irc type**/quit**and to detach your screen session without
quitting simply press**^a-d**(see the previous tutorial if you don't
know what this means). It is beyond the scope of this document to
explain how to use irssi or standard irc commands - type**/help**in the
status window to list commands and**/help \[command\]''' to get detailed
help on how to use individual commands and what they do.

Another useful trick to use is having the same irc screen session
attached at several terminals where you are working, for instance in a
bedroom pc and a kitchen pc, so you can just carry on using it at
whichever workstation you're nearest (of course this also applies to
editors etc running in screen, but we all know the most important thing
is irc). You can do this by doing **screen -rx irc** from wherever you
log in - this will not detach your old session. Now you know how to get
on irc, you can always ask the nice people in #tardis for help if you
have any problems or questions. The rest of the tutorials will cover
ways of doing other common tasks that tardis is used for, with less
emphasis on the details. By now you are expected to be able to read
**man** pages for new programs you don't know much about, and ask on irc
if you need help with anything.

**Next: [Setting up an account on
Shout](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/5.1 "wikilink")**