# Tutorial 6: Using nano to edit text and configuration files

There are many text editors available for linux, the most often used
ones being **emacs**, **vi** or **vim**, and **nano**. Of these, nano is
by far the simplest to learn, with functionality not greatly exceeding
that of windows notepad - this makes it ideal as your first editor. If
you are already well versed in the use of emacs, vi, or anything else
more complicated, feel free to use that instead. Using nano is
exceedingly simple - all controls are performed by ctrl-key
combinations, listed at the bottom of the page. So for instance to exit
you press **^X** (which means control and x). Whenever you want to find
out how to do something that isn't listed at the bottom of the page (for
instance select text), press **^G** to get a helpful listing of
commands.

Now you are going to modify your ".profile". This is a file in your
homedir that gets executed when you log in, and is used for setting
things like environment variables, paths and the way the prompt looks.
First, type **ls \~/.profile**. If it says "no such file or directory",
you will need to copy the default one - do **cp /etc/profile
\~/.profile**. Now open it with **nano \~/.profile**. To begin with,
let's add some aliases to make using some common commands easier, and
improve the look of things. An alias is simply a string the shell will
recognise on the commandline and replace with another preprogrammed
string - usually used to shorten long commonly used commands. You can
create them yourself on the commandline with **alias** - check out the
man page. For now we'll add some to the .profile, so they'll be executed
every time you log in. Scroll to the bottom of the file using your arrow
keys or page down and add the following lines: '''

    alias rm='rm -iv'
    alias cp='cp -iv'
    alias mv='mv -iv'

**The above replace the usual remove, copy and move commands with
aliases to them plus some additional flags: -**i**makes it ask
you**i**nteractively if you want to overwrite files (whereas if files
were going to be overwritten, it would happen automatically by default),
and**-v**makes the output more**v**erbose, so you can see what it's
actually doing. Now let's add some aliases to make ls easier to use, and
the output more attractive. Add the following lines to the file:**

    alias ls='ls -a --color'
    alias ll='ls -alh --color'

**The first tells ls to output in colour, and to show**a**ll files
(including hidden ones beginning with "."). The second creates a new
alias, that you can now use as a command, to make it easier to do**ls
-l**like we did in tutorial 2 to see file sizes and their permissions.
The**-h**flag makes the output**h'''uman readable - i.e. the file sizes
are shown in megabytes and kilobytes rather than just a long number of
bytes. You'll notice it's possible to string together multiple
commandline flags prefixed by a single dash - another timesaving feature
of bash.

Now let's save our file by pressing **^O** (which means ctrl and O, as
you should know by now). It will ask you what filename to write to -
just press enter to accept the default one. If for some reason the
filename is not .profile, type that. Then press ^X to exit. If you
forgot to save, you would be prompted to save when you pressed ^X
anyway. Congratulations, you just successfully edited your first file
under linux! Now simply log out (using **logout** or **exit**)and log
back in as described in tutorial 1. Now try typing **ls** and **ll** and
see the pretty colours, and notice that hidden files are now shown!
Under linux you can make a file hidden by changing its name to start
with ".", such as ".profile". Such files are not shown by default, but
are with the **-a** flag - but now you will always see them.

**Next: [Filesystem Tutorial](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/7 "wikilink")**