# Tutorial 7: Using the network filesystem to make your homepage

This tutorial will show you how to combine browsing the filesystem with
editing files like you learnt in the previous tutorial, and will also
demonstrate simple manipulation of files.

First let's browse to our homepages directory. You should already have a
publicly accessable directory in your name. Try using your browser to
look at **https://tardis.ed.ac.uk/\~\[username\]**. It's an old
convention on multiuser linux systems to have users' homepages hosted in
a directory prefixed by a tilde ("\~"), for instance
**<https://tardis.ed.ac.uk/~rain>**. You should be presented with an
empty index page. If you get a "not found" error, don't worry - your
"pages" directory has probably not been created yet. First let's browse
to your web user directory. Type **cd /var/autofs/www/\[username\]/**
where \[username\] is obviously your username. If you successfully
completed the last tutorial, you should be able to type **ll** to see if
there is a "pages" directory - if that doesn't work, simply type **ls
-al**. If there is a "pages" directory there, simply **cd pages** -
otherwise you'll have to **mkdir pages** first.

You are now in your web root. This is where you will eventually put your
homepage. For now let's just write a simple message in an index file:
'''

    nano index.html

**Writing html is far beyond the scope of this document. If you feel you
can already make a proper html document, feel free to let rip. However,
for now we're simply going to create a plain text file, as it will be
shown just fine in your browser anyway. Simply type in something along
the lines of "Hooray, i just made my first website on tardis! I feel so
special." and press ^O. This will save the file, you don't have to quit
the editor yet. Now simply
open**https://tardis.ed.ac.uk/\~\[USERNAME\]''' in your browser again,
and refresh if you need to. You should see the text you just wrote, and
so will anyone who goes to that page.

Feel free to write your own html here. If you have code you want to
paste from the windows clipboard, you can paste into putty simply by
right-clicking in the terminal. All you need to do to copy text from the
terminal to the clipboard is to select it with your mouse and it's
copied automatically. Although a lot of people use programs to generate
html (the most dire of which is frontpage), real men write their html by
hand ;) If you want to learn html, i recommend the tutorials at
<http://www.w3schools.com/html/>. If you're already proficient at the
basics, that site also has tutorials on xml, cascading stylesheets, etc
etc.

For now we're just going to practice manipulating files in our web
directory though. Exit nano with **^X** and do **ls**. You should see
your newly created index file. Let's make a new directory in the current
one called "test": '''

    mkdir test
    cd test
    ls

**Now let's copy our index over to a new file here:**

    cp ../index.html ./
    ls

**Simple enough... let's just**cat index.html**to check the contents are
the same? Now let's modify it (**nano index.html**to say something
different, such as "new directory test", using delete or backspace to
remove what we've already written. You can cut out entire lines by
pressing**^K**. When you're finished**^O**and**^X**as usual. Now point
your browser at**https://tardis.ed.ac.uk/\~\[USERNAME\]/test/''' and you
should see your new file.

Now we've copied a file, let's try moving and deleting. Renaming is just
a way of moving, so let's rename "index.html" to "test2.html": '''

    mv index.html test2.html
    ls

**Simple huh? Now let's delete our new file.**

    rm test2.html

**If you completed the previous tutorial you should be prompted as to
whether you wish to delete the file. Pressing anything other than "y"
will cancel the operation. So press "y"! Deleting directories is
different - there is another level of protection. You cannot delete
directories like normal files - you have to use the**-r**flag to make
the deletion**r**ecursive. First let's backtrack to our pages
directory:**

    cd ..
    rm -r test

**And it's gone. If you aliased your**rm**to include**-i**in the last
tutorial, you might find it useful to use the**-f**flag to**f**orce
deletion without prompting, for removing large numbers of files. Of
course this operation is irreversable, and you should be very careful,
especially if you ever combine the**r**and**f''' flags!

Congratulations, you have just created your first webpage. If you have
an existing website with content you wish to upload to tardis, i will
walk you through this in a few tutorials. First though you need to
understand how programs run under the linux environment, and how you can
control their threads in the next tutorial.

**Next: [Process Control](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/8 "wikilink")**