# Tutorial 8: Monitoring and manipulating your processes

## The foreground and the background

You don't need to use screen to multitask in linux - bash provides some
methods of elementary process control that you ought to know about. By
default a process (any program you run) will run in foreground - meaning
your user input will be piped to it rather than the shell or any other
program. It is possible to make a program run in background instead,
simply by appending **&** to the commandline - for instance, try
running: '''

    top &

**Instead of the familiar full-screen display, you will get a pair of
numbers - the one in square brackets (probably "1") is the number of the
backgrounded process belonging to you (this is the "job number" - don't
confuse this with PID), and the second number is the Process ID (PID)
which is used to globally refer to the process - to kill it, change its
priority, etc - once it is running. While the PID is accessable to
anyone on the machine, the other number is only for your own use in the
following two commands -**fg**and**bg**. You can use fg or bg on their
own to bring a specified process to the foreground or the background. If
a process is not in the foreground it is either already in the
background or it's stopped - you can usually stop a foreground process
by pressing**^z**(ctrl-z). This will freeze it, and return you to the
prompt - then you can either type**bg**to allow it to run in the
background, without your input, or**fg**to bring it back to the
foreground. Now try bringing top back to foreground by typing:**

    fg

**Optionally, you could type**fg 1**or whatever the first number was to
bring back a specific process, if you have more than one running in the
background or stopped. By default,**fg**on its own will bring back the
last process that left the foreground. Instead of the number, you can
also use the name or the first few letters of the name of the process.
The other command,**bg''', works exactly the same way (except of course
you can't put a program that's running in the foreground into the
background with it, simply because you don't have the shell to type it
into - you have to stop it first with ^z).

## Listing, killing and renicing processes

You will not be the only one running processes on the tardis machine you
are logged in to - as well as the processes the machine runs itself,
such as network services and daemons, you will be sharing memory and
processor time with other regular users, who may only be running
**mutt** to check their mail, or may be compiling large amounts of
source code. The responsiveness of the system is therefore connected to
the current demand for it. To cope with many users running many
processes, linux has a threads and priorities system which we can
control to a small degree as a normal user.

To see who is connected to the same machine you are, type **w** - this
lists all usernames, where they are connected from if they are logged in
from the internet or another tardis machine, when they logged in, how
long they've been idle, how much cpu time they are using on average, and
what they are currently running in foreground.

To list the processes you have running you can simply type ps. You will
likely only see two - bash, and **ps** itself. The command **ps** is
much more powerful however, and has many commandline options to modify
the output. My preferred ps commandline is: '''

    ps auxf

**This lists**a**ll processes, with**u**sers listed with their
processes, regardless of tty (**x**), and with an ascii-art**f**orest
style process hierarchy display (which shows graphically which processes
are children to which). The output is rather long - it shows both
userland and system processes. Scroll back up it by pressing
shift-pageup, or alternatively pipe the output to the pager**less**:**

    ps auxf | less

''' You may spot some interesting stuff going on - the process list is
constantly changing, so no two ps outputs will be the same. The most
useful thing to be found on the process list is the PID - the four or
five digit number on the left. It is this number you use to reference
individual processes.

The other useful thing to understand is priority of a process. A process
can be assigned a priority, which tells the kernel how much cpu time it
should be given relative to other processes. For a non-root user,
priorities range from 0 to 19 where 0 is the most cpu time (demands the
process' maximum fair share of cpu time available) and 19 is the least
(the lowest priority) - meaning it will use only idle cpu time that no
other process wants. It is also possible to have negative priorities,
where processes aggressively grab cpu time whether they need it or not,
but only the root user can create those. Also only the root user can
increase the priority of a process (reduce the number), although the
user can create his processes with any priority between 0 and 19, and
reduce the priority (increase the number) while it is running. Note
however that the priority the user assigns their process is only taken
as a guide by the kernel, and the kernel will assign a lower real
priority based on system load etc. The priority you assign a process is
called its **nice**d priority, and you can see both the real and niced
priority in **top** - have a look now. It seems that nobody knows
exactly why it's called "nice", but people seem to think it's to do with
making the process "behave nicely". by not hogging unnecessary
resources. You can make your own processes nicer with the renice command
- have a read of **man renice** now, because it's fairly versatile.

Now let's try some advanced process manipulation. We are going to create
a resource hogging process, but then stop it, make it play nice, and
eventually kill it altogether before it can complete. First let's log in
a second time, so we can watch how our process behaves. Log in as
described in the first tutorial, and run **top** in the new window. Now
go back to your other shell window - it's time to create a resource
hogging process that will never end: '''

    grep sillystringthatwontbefound /dev/urandom

**This will search the system random "device" for an exact match of a
silly string that is rather unlikely to be found. This process will
never end, and will use as much cpu time as the kernel is willing to
give it. Run this now, and watch it appear at the top of the list in
your other shell window running**top'''. You will see in the CPU column
that it's using considerably more cpu time than any other process
(unless you're unlucky and the machine is heavily loaded at the moment),
and you will see the kernel changing its priority constantly to balance
its demands with those of the rest of the system, while the "nice"
column remains at zero.

Now we will make our resource hog play a little nicer. Let's stop our
process by pressing ^z (ctrl-z). Note how it's no longer taking up any
cpu time, if you look at top. Now let's put it in the background by
typing bg and see it spring back up on the top list. Now we have a shell
prompt we can take control of the process, so let's tame it a bit. We'll
need the PID of the process, so copy it from the list in top - you can
copy by just selecting the text, and paste it when you need to by
right-clicking in the window. Now we know the PID, we can change its
priority: '''

    renice +10 [PID of our process]

**Now have a look at the listing in**top**again - our nice priority has
been increased, but if the system is as busy when you try it as when i
was writing this, you'll find the actual priority doesn't change at all
because it's a higher number to start with than your nice priority. Your
nice priority is just saying to the kernel that your process doesn't
need to go over a certain priority. So let's force our resource hog to
absolute minimum priority:**

    renice +19 [PID of our process]

''' Now we see the process' priority has dropped to 19 and if any
process at all wants more cpu time our grep will step out of the way.

Now to finish off, let's kill the process. We could just bring it back
to foreground and interrupt it by pressing ^c, but killing it is pretty
much the same. This is what you want to do if a process stops
responding, or behaves in a way you don't want it to and you can't stop
it in a more friendly way. Try it now - simply type: kill \[PID of
process\] It should now have disappeared from the processes list.
Sometimes uncooperative processes don't die with just the standard TERM
signal, in which case you want to send it a KILL signal by typing: kill
-s 9 \[PID of process\] It's worth reading **man kill** as it explains
different signals - you will see that **kill** can be used to send other
signals to processes, such as HUP which is used fairly often. Now you
know how to control processes you run, you should be able to do pretty
much everything you need on tardis. The next few tutorials will teach
you to use ssh and wget to copy files across to your tardis account to
do things like upload your website to tardis, and download software
source files to compile in our last tutorial. By the time you complete
these tutorials, you should know how to do pretty much anything you
might want on tardis.

**Next: [Advanced SSH Usage](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/9 "wikilink")**