Tutorial 9: Setting up RSA keys and using SCP As well as interactive
password authentication, ssh supports public & private RSA key pairs.
What this means is that you don't have to type your password in every
time you want to log into a remote machine over ssh - all you have to do
is set up a key pair. The point of this particular tutorial however is
that there is more to ssh than just a shell login - ssh can be used to
transfer files (**scp**) and set up tcp portforwards between two hosts,
which can then be used to set up tunnels... overall ssh is a very
powerful tool.

You can set up rsa keys between any pair of machines. You generate a
pair of keys on a machine - a private key and a public key - and copy
the public key over to the remote machine(s). You can then log into the
remote machine(s) using the key authentication automatically - all this
is done by default, the only difference from the user's perspective is
that no password prompt appears. There are simple ways to set up rsa
keypairs using tools in the putty suite, but i've never used them and am
not going to explain how to use them. If you are interested, check the
docs yourself on the putty website. To set this up on a linux machine to
be able to log into tardis without typing a password, or to generate a
keypair on tardis to log into another machine, do: '''

    ssh-keygen -t rsa

**Simply press return to all the prompts to accept the defaults, you
want no passphrase. Then you will need to copy the contents of the newly
created**\~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub**into \~/.ssh/authorized_keys if it doesn't
exist or append the contents to the end if it does. You can either copy
and paste the contents across manually using a text editor on each
machine, or you can do it using**scp**and learn something on the way :)
So let's do that:**

    scp ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub [username]@ssh.tardis.ed.ac.uk:~/tempkey

**Feed it your password... then you'll need to log into the remote
machine. If you were doing this from tardis to another machine,
obviously you would put the other machine instead of ssh.tardis...
anyway, logged into the remote machine, do:**

    cat ~/tempkey >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
    rm -f ~/tempkey

**That's all you have to do - no more password prompts. And now you know
how to use scp - if you're not sure you understand the syntax used
above,**man scp'''. The advantage of these two things is in the
combination - you will find you can write cron scripts on your home
linux box to scp certain files into your webdir at certain intervals for
instance, and countless similar uses.

Now assuming you have your website built already on your home box,
whether it's windows or linux or whatever, you can easily scp the
contents to your webdir without having to set up any frippery with
fileservers of any kind, either using linux scp or putty's pscp - for
example, **scp \~/myhtml/\*
jimbob@ssh.tardis.ed.ac.uk:/var/autofs/www/users/jimbob/pages/** -
without even having to log into tardis (although bear in mind you may
have to modify the permissions of the files you copy to be readable to
the html daemon). To find out how to do this, read **man chmod**, but in
short, for files you want to **chmod 644 \[filename\]** and for
directories **chmod 755 \[filename\]** (the difference being that
directories have to be marked executable for the user to be able to
browse to them). Also for certain script files, such as php files, you
will want to make the permissions executable (755). Read the man page to
find out what these numbers mean and how to use them.

It is also worth mentioning **winscp** which seems a very popular
windows scp client, which can also do sftp. You can get **winscp** from
<http://winscp.sourceforge.net/eng/download.php>. It is incredibly easy
to use - fill in the hostname as **ssh.tardis.ed.ac.uk**, your username
and password as themselves (duh), and select **scp** at the bottom
instead of sftp. You'll get a nice graphical interface reminiscent of
most windows ftp clients - the left shows your local machine, the right
shows your tardis homedir, and you can simply drag and drop from one
side to the other. For advanced usage have a look at its help system.
Very very easy :)

Next - how to download stuff and browse the internet from the shell.

**Next: [Web browsing using links and
wget](Tardis_Beginner_Tutorials/10 "wikilink")**